There are three xml schemas used in the data model:
  * event.xml
  * session.xml
  * reference.xml

### Event.xml ###
The event.xml file contains metadata pertaining to individual events that happen, and for which the Archives is storing audio/video/image data. It consists of an **event** document element with a single **metadata** child element

### Session.xml ###
The session.xml is the main type of file stored in the database. A 'session' is defined as a continuous period of time for which recording has happened - normally lasting around 2 hours. For example, in residential programs Sadhguru may have a morning session and an evening session, each day for 5 days. One or more sessions correspond to an event. (In the last example the event would have 10 sessions).

The session.xml file document element is **session**. It contains three child elements:
  * metadata
  * mediaMetadata
  * transcript

**metadata** stores information specific to the session - (analogous) to the **metadata** element in the event.xml file.

**mediaMetadata** stores information about the digital media files (video/audio/image) that were recorded during the session

**transcript** stores the full transcription of the session (including elements generated by users categorizations)

### Reference.xml ###
The reference.xml file is a globally referenced file which contains the definitions of most of the elements used in the session files. e.g. categories, concepts, devices...

### The Transcript element ###
The transcript element initially contains a sequence of **segment** elements. Each segment corresponds to a paragraph in a document. One or more consecutive segments can be wrapped in a **superSegment** element. (Generally each superSegment corresponds to a topic within the document - but they can be used more generally). superSegment elements can also be nested.

Segment elements can contain any number of **content** elements. (A content element corresponds to one or more consecutive words within a paragraph). (We sometimes use content elements for capturing information such as emphasized words, or words spoken in Tamil). One or more consecutive content elements can be wrapped in a **superContent** element. (superContent elements correspond to regions of text, within a paragraph, that have been identified for some reason e.g. a quotation). superContent elements can also be nested.

We distinguish between **factual** metadata (e.g. words spoken in Tamil, emphasized words), and **subjective** metadata (e.g. topics, good quotations), and we use superSegments and superContents in the latter case - (which one depends on whether the text spans multiple segments or is fully contained within a single segment).

### Tag elements ###

When we want to categorize a span of text - thereby creating a superSegment or superContent element, we also create some additional **tag** elements which define what kind of categorization has been applied. tag elements are children of superSegment or superContent elements. All tag elements have a **type** attribute, and a **value** attribute. The type attribute can be one of the following:

  * markupType
  * markupCategory
  * concept

For tags of type markupType and markupCategory the value attribute contains a reference to an element in the reference.xml file. For tags of type concept, the value attribute does not reference anything else - it simply contains the text input by the user. (We call these "additional concepts" - see later)

### Concepts and Categories ###

The categorization model is based on **concepts** and **categories**. A concept is a one or two word keyword or tag-name (e.g. "mysticism", "death", "sadhguru-biography" etc..), which pontentially covers a very broad domain. A category is defined by a category-name, and a set of concepts, and describes a much finer aspect. An example of a category might be: "Effect of Dhyanalinga consecration on Sadhguru's body [sadhguru-biography dhyanalinga-consecration]" - where the items in square brackets are concepts. Category definitions are stored in the refence file.

In addition to associating categories to spans of text, we also allow the user the possibility of defining **additional concepts** to a span of text. (The motivation behind this functionality was to allow the user to specify concepts that are relevant purely from a contextual viewpoint - rather than relating to the definition of the category itself). This allows us to capture contextual information about where the category was used. (e.g. "George Bush sees a kangaroo for the first time [george-bush] +[mysticism](mysticism.md)"). This example shows how a category (in this case the markupType = "joke"), has been used in a discourse about mysticism. We denote additional concepts by displaying them in an additional set of square brackets after the category definition, preceded by a plus sign.

Note that for greater flexibility we allow the user to markup spans of text without specifying any category - and let them specify only additional-concepts.

### Synonyms and Subtypes ###

In the reference file we also store relationships between concepts, which the user can define. These are **synonyms** and **subtypes**. This allows the search results to be more "intelligent" and return more relevant results.

e.g. we define the concepts "enlightenment", "liberation", "mukthi", "nirvana" as synonyms. Now when a user searches on any one of these terms, he receives results for all of them.

Similarly, subtypes allow us to define a hierarchical relationship between concepts - but without the end-user needing to know about it. For example we might have the concept "isha-practices" and we might have the the following concepts defined as subtypes: "shoonya", "shakti-chalana-kriya", "breath-watching". Searching for "isha-practices" would bring back results for all the latter concepts.

### Markup Types ###
When defining a superSegment or superContent we assign to it a tag of type = markupType. We use this attribute to distinguish between the different types of things that can be identified by the users - as distinct from the different topics. All the markup types are defined in the reference file. They include:

  * topic
  * story
  * joke
  * question
  * music
  * performance
  * quote

Note that a category can be used in conjunction with any one of these types. The best example of this is when we use the same category to mark up a participants question, and Sadhguru's response - but in the superSegment/superContent we set the markupType attribute to "question" and "topic" respectively