#summary Installation procedure for Ubuntu Linux

==Steps for installing ts4isha on Linux (Ubuntu)==
===Prerequisites===
  * eXist 1.2.5 (jar file) [http://exist.sourceforge.net/download.html#N10170]
  * java (jdk 6) [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp]
  * flex sdk 3.3 [http://www.adobe.com/products/flex/flexdownloads/]
  * mozilla firefox 3.0 [http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/firefox.html]
  * adobe flash player 10 (debian package - firefox plugin) [http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/]

===System Setup===
Install Firefox and the flash player plugin (if not already installed on your system).

Install java (the default installation location is /usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun).

Install eXist by executing the command "sudo java -jar eXist-setup-1.2.5-rev8668.jar" from within the directory containing the eXist jar file. (We recommend you install to /usr/lib/exist). Ensure that you provide a non-empty admin password.

Unpack the flex sdk to a suitable location. (We recommend /usr/lib/flex).

===Define system environment variables===
Edit the /etc/environment file to include the following lines:

  * EXIST_HOME="/usr/lib/exist"
  * JAVA_HOME="/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun"
  * FLEX_HOME="/usr/lib/flex"

(Paths may be different for different installations)

===Check out source code from svn===
Execute the following command in the terminal to get the latest version of the code:

svn checkout http://transcriptstudio4isha.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ ts4isha-trunk

(or get the most recent stable tag)

(If you don't have subversion installed, you can get it by typing "sudo apt-get install svn" in the terminal).

===Build the application===
Open the ts4isha-trunk folder and run the build.sh script as root ("sudo ./build.sh"). (Note that you may have to make it executable by running the following command: "sudo chmod +x build.sh").

After the build completes successfully, restart the database by executing the shutdown.sh script in the $EXIST_HOME/bin directory, and then the start.sh script.

(Note that you may need to reload the /etc/environment file, if the environment variables are not being recognized. You can do this by typing "sudo source /etc/environment" in the terminal)

===Run the application=== 
Open Firefox and enter "http://localhost:8080/exist/ts4isha/TranscriptStudio.swf" to run the Transcript Studio Flex Application, and enter your eXist admin username and password at the prompt.